# 1.1 Programming (General)
Computer programs are abundant in many people's lives today, carrying out applications on smartphones, tablets, and laptops, powering businesses like Amazon and netflix, helping cars drive and planes fly, and much more.

A computer program consists of instructions executing one at a time. Basic instruction types are:
- Input: A program gets data, perhaps from a file, keyboard, touchscreen, network, etc.
- Process: A program performs cimputations on that data, such as adding two values like x + y.
- Output: A program puts that data somewhere, such as to a file, screen, network, etc.

Programs use ***variables*** to refer to data, like x, y, and z below. The name is due to a variable's value varying as a program assigns a variable like x with new values.


> ### A program is like a recipe.
>Some people think of a program as being like a cooking recipe. A recipe consists of instructions that a chef executes, like adding eggs or stirring ingredients. Likewise, a computer program consists of instructions that a computer executes, like multiplying numbers or outputting a number to a screen.


## Computational thinking
*Mathematical thinking* became increasingly important throughout the industrial age to enable people to successfully live and work. In the information age, many people believe ***computational thinking***, or creating a sequence of instructions to solve a problem, will become increasingly important for work and everyday life. A sequence of instructions that solve a problem is called an ***algorithm***.